‎Preaching in the province of Quebec
‎was a real challenge.
‎The Catholic Church
‎was present
‎in every sphere of public life.
‎In the early ’40s,
‎the persecution
‎took on quite a bit
‎of emphasis.
‎Many Witnesses were being arrested.
‎Any excuse was used.
‎Peddling without a license
‎—this was a favorite excuse.
‎Jehovah’s Witnesses were put in prison
‎whenever they were seen
‎with religious literature.
‎It had got so bad in Quebec
‎that it was decided to circulate a petition,
‎and this petition was circulated
‎throughout Canada.
‎And it called
‎on the government of Quebec
‎to put an end
‎to this persecution.
‎And interestingly,
‎some 600,000 people
‎signed the petition.
‎The Witnesses distributed
‎a very fiery tract
‎called the Burning Hate of Quebec.
‎And in this tract,
‎they showed
‎what was really happening
‎—the actions of the policemen,
‎the illegal arrests,
‎the mob action.
‎Within four months,
‎there were 800 new court cases.
‎So here,
‎for 400 Jehovah’s Witnesses,
‎you had 1,600 court cases.
‎The seriousness
‎of the court cases increased,
‎in that now
‎they were accusing
‎the brothers of sedition.
‎If convicted,
‎it was more than 10
‎—maybe 12 or 15—
‎years in prison.
‎We had one brother,
‎Aimé Boucher,
‎who was arrested
‎and charged with sedition.
‎Aimé Boucher
‎was a very poor brother,
‎who lived
‎in a rural part of Quebec.
‎And he actually
‎went to court
‎with his ox and buggy.
‎And on the way to court,
‎he was preaching,
‎so he was arrested again.
‎They had the court hearing,
‎and he was condemned.
‎He was found guilty of sedition.
‎And his case went up
‎to the Court of Appeal
‎—and at that time, the Court of Appeal
‎of Quebec was very hostile—
‎and he lost on appeal,
‎so it went up
‎to the Supreme Court of Canada.
‎And by this time,
‎there were several
‎other brothers and sisters
‎also charged on sedition,
‎which meant that if he lost his case,
‎we had several going to prison
‎for very lengthy prison terms.
‎When Brother Boucher’s case
‎came before the Supreme Court,
‎he lost by a majority of one.
‎The Catholic judges
‎all ruled against him,
‎and they found that the tract
‎the Burning Hate of Quebec
‎was seditious.
‎Our lawyers looked at the situation,
‎prayed about it, and thought:
‎‘What can we do?
‎We can’t lose this battle.’
‎And they realized that in Canada
‎there was a very rarely used provision
‎of asking the Supreme Court
‎for a rehearing.
‎At the rehearing,
‎one of the Catholic judges
‎was willing to discuss further
‎the issue of sedition.
‎And to be guilty of sedition,
‎you have to incite to violence.
‎So our attorney asked them:
‎“Please, look at the record.
‎“Show the court
‎where Jehovah’s Witnesses
‎incited to violence.”
‎And finally, they were able
‎to convince a court they were wrong.
‎And so they overturned
‎their initial decision,
‎and Brother Boucher’s case
‎was victorious.
‎This dealt with all
‎the accusations of sedition
‎and really brought to an end
‎the vicious opposition,
‎because that case
‎was the one the government
‎was hoping would work out for them.
‎There is one case
‎that’s quite noteworthy in Quebec.
‎And it’s a case of the priest
‎calling up the federal police
‎to come and interrupt
‎a meeting of Jehovah’s Witnesses
‎and expel the speaker
‎from the province of Quebec.
‎The police obeyed the priest.
‎They went to the meeting,
‎they took the brother,
‎and they escorted him
‎out of the province into Ontario.
‎And to disrupt a religious meeting
‎was a criminal act.
‎For the first time
‎—and it’s at the level of the Supreme Court—
‎they found that the three policemen
‎had to pay moral damages
‎to the brothers
‎for intercepting,
‎or interrupting, the meeting.
‎This has never happened before.
‎And when it came up
‎to the Supreme Court,
‎they unanimously ruled
‎against the province of Quebec.
‎The section on religious freedom
‎is the result of these court cases.
‎Every lawyer in Canada
‎(whether in Quebec or in English Canada),
‎when he studies law,
‎must review these cases.
‎They are the fundamentals
‎of religious freedom.
‎And they represent
‎the different areas
‎—police action, government action,
‎criminal action—
‎and they lay a very nice basis
‎for our freedoms today.
‎Our purpose is to be able
‎to preach the good news
‎and to direct people’s attention
‎toward the Bible.
‎But our court cases
‎have helped governments,
‎courts, judges,
‎and officials
‎to have the right point of view
‎on the issue of religious freedom.